h1. Api

Open food documentation

## Our Github
https://github.com/Open-Food/Open-Food-Standard

## WIP API documentation

The general idea for the API is that we will create ‘things’ as a way to collect as much properties for a food, ingredient, farm, source, boat, etc.

A relationship can be created by simply adding a property to a ‘farm’ called ‘grows’ with the string value ‘tomato’.  The value of that property is not checked but another lookup can be performed to see information on a ‘tomato’

This was mainly created this way so that we can add ‘foodtree_id’, ‘freebase_id’ properties to items in the database.  We want to be able to associate links to existing sources of information rather than replicate or sync it across.

The primary focus was to gather as much data on an item, easily put it into one place and be able to query it.

http://open-food.heroku.com 

## Get things by name:
HTTP GET to /things.json
Example json to send
{“name” : “apple” }

note: if no name parameter is provided the first ten things is returned.

## Create a thing with properties
HTTP POST to /things.json
Example json to post:
{“thing” :  { “name” : “Apple”, 
  “properties” : [
		{“name” : “color”, “value” : “green”}
		{“name” : “type_of”, “value” : “fruit”}
	]
}

## You can add properties to an existing thing:
HTTP POST to /things/{thing_id}/properties.json
Example json to post:
{ “properties” : 
[
	{“name” : “color”, “value” : “green”}
	{“name” : “type_of”, “value” : “”}
] 
}

## View a thing and it’s properties
HTTP GET to /things/{thing_id}.json
Responds with json representation of the thing

## Things to do

- As a developer be able to query what things have a property with a certain value. For example when I am viewing a ‘tomato’ I would like to see what things there are that have a property set of that.
- As a developer I would like to see all the different types of property names that can be applied for a thing
- Consider how duplicate information will be handled
- How will versions be handled and how will we know who added what data
    
- As a developer I would like to view the information Freebase has on an item I'm viewing. Similar to how the context examples work on simplegeo
	•	Example: If the food item being viewed has a freebase id then link to the page or API for more information


## Things to consider later
As open food we want to know who added data (and when)

As a developer I would like to query recipes associated with particular foods

A developer wants to use data about the top counties for production in certain foods (like tomatoes, leafy greens, eggs and pork) to estimate how far these foods travel on average to reach major population centers.


h2. More Information

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. Required Gems

This application requires this gem:

* "rails":http://rubygems.org/gems/rails

h2. Dependencies

To use this application, you will need:

* The Ruby language (version 1.8.7 or 1.9.2)
* Rails (version 3.0.4 or newer)

h2. Installing the Application

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. Getting Started

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. Documentation and Support

This is the only documentation.

h4. Issues

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. Similar Projects

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. Contributing

If you make improvements to this application, please share with others.

* Fork the project on GitHub.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Commit with Git.
* Send the author a pull request.

If you add functionality to this application, create an alternative implementation, or build an application that is similar, please contact me and I'll add a note to the README so that others can find your work.

h2. Credits

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

h2. License

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.